---
title: Gridcoin Wiki
layout: wiki
---

## Gridcoin Introduction

Gridcoin (Ticker: GRC) is a decentralized, open-source, math-based
digital asset (cryptocurrency). Gridcoin, while energy-efficient, is the
first and only cryptocurrency that rewards individuals for scientific
contributions and performs transactions peer-to-peer cryptographically -
without the need for a central authority to distribute rewards. It is
the first block chain protocol that delivered a working algorithm that
rewards and cryptographically proves solving [BOINC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Berkeley_Open_Infrastructure_for_Network_Computing)
(Berkeley Open Infrastructure for Network Computing) hosted work, which
could be virtually any kind of computing process. Gridcoin provides
benefits to humanity through contributions to computational research.
There are no limitations to a single BOINC project, providing the
flexibility to be rewarded for virtually any type of computational
process.

Gridcoin was launched on October 16th, 2013 by Rob Halförd, following an
announcement
[CryptocurrencyTalk](https://cryptocurrencytalk.com/topic/1416-gridcoin-grc-information-classic-in-retirement/).

The coin compensates the coin miners (researchers) for participating in
[BOINC](BOINC "wikilink") projects that may lead to advances in
medicine, biology, mathematics, science, climatology, particle and
astrophysics, thus providing real benefits to humanity. Gridcoin
compensates researchers for contributing computational power towards
BOINC research using an energy-efficient Proof-of-Stake process, instead
of generating heat and using computational power for a Proof-of-Work
algorithm. Gridcoin differs from other scientific cryptocurrencies in
its ability to support many different kinds of scientific projects and
is only limited by what is currently broadcast over the BOINC network,
and the project whitelist decided upon by community consensus.

There was a change from the original Gridcoin protocol
([Gridcoin-Classic](Gridcoin-Classic "wikilink")) to Gridcoin-Research,
the actual Gridcoin. Gridcoin-Classic used a hybrid Proof-of-Work which
allowed each computer to spend half of the time hashing, and half of the
time contributing to science; An improvement on Bitcoin, but
computational resources were still being wasted. The BOINC work was only
used to measure the subsidy that was supposed to be minted with the
block. Gridcoin-Research makes scrypt mining and Proof-of-Work hashing
obsolete. With the change to Gridcoin-Research and the
[Proof-of-Research](Proof-of-Research "wikilink") algorithm, nearly all
of the energy goes to science; The compute power to secure the block
chain is minimal. In the
[Proof-of-Research](Proof-of-Research "wikilink") algorithm, the BOINC
work is not only used to measure the subsidy and provide a unique
alternative to classic work measuring Proof-of-Work schemes, but
actually complements the security of the Proof-of-Stake system.

  - [Release Info
    (Github)](https://github.com/gridcoin-community/Gridcoin-Research/releases)

## Metrics

**[Gridcoin-Classic](Gridcoin-Classic "wikilink") - Retired**

  - Launched: October 16th, 2013
  - Retired: April 20th, 2015
  - By: Rob Halförd
  - Algorithm: Scrypt Proof-of-Work
  - Supply: 40 Million Approx.
  - Block time: 2.5 Minutes
  - Retarget: Every 30 Minutes
  - Reward: variable
  - Premined: 0%

**Gridcoin-Research [Proof-of-Research](Proof-of-Research "wikilink")**

  - Launch: October 11th, 2014
  - By: Rob Halförd
  - Algorithm: [Proof-of-Research](Proof-of-Research "wikilink"), Reward
    based on Research contribution to BOINC secured via Proof-of-Stake
  - Supply: See [Proof-of-Research](Proof-of-Research "wikilink"),
    inflation target approximately 3% per year
  - Block time: 90 Seconds
  - Premined: 0% - Initial distribution based on Proof-of-Burn from
    Gridcoin Classic - Research Foundation Block = 340,569,880

## P2P

Gridcoin allows near instant peer to peer transactions and worldwide
payments at very low processing fees. The code is open source and allows
everyone to take part in the success and development of the currency.
Open Source is said to be more secure, since everybody can review and
improve the code if needed.

BOINC's success is largely built on the credit system, which allowed for
competition between partakers. Gridcoin furthers this competition by
adding an interchangeable scale of measure. Peers can now directly see
their contribution and own mark on the chain, a document of scientific
progress.

## Comparison to Bitcoin

Bitcoin is consuming approximately 42.69 TWh according to
[Digiconomist](https://digiconomist.net/bitcoin-energy-consumption).
Although controversial in modeling this figure, it shows that a lot of
unnecessary energy is used by Bitcoin's SHA-256 algorithm, which could
be used for more useful calculations. Gridcoin is based on the Bitcoin
protocol but differs from Bitcoin in that it can be efficiently mined
with consumer-grade hardware, therefore is not likely to be replaced by
specialized ASIC mining chips in the future.

Gridcoin-Research is based on a Proof of Stake algorithm, which itself
is much more energy efficient. Energy-efficiency was already propagated
during the release of Peercoin, the first Proof-of-Stake coin.
Proof-of-Stake allows miners to dedicate their compute resources towards
scientific computations instead of securing the blockchain.

## Official Resources

  - Website: <https://gridcoin.us/>
  - [Volunteers, Roles &
    Privileges](Volunteers,-Roles,-&-Privileges "wikilink")
  - BOINCstats:
    <https://boincstats.com/en/stats/-1/team/detail/118094994/overview>
  - Gridcoinstats: <https://gridcoinstats.eu/>
  - Nuad.de: <https://www.nuad.de/block-explorer/>
  - NeuralMiner.io: <https://GRCexplorer.neuralminer.io/>
  - Netsoft:
    <http://www.boinc.netsoft-online.com/e107_plugins/boinc/bp_home.php>
  - SETIBZH: <https://statsbzh.boinc-af.org/team.php?name=R3JpZGNvaW4=>
  - Free-DC Stats:
    <https://stats.free-dc.org/stats.php?page=teambycpid&team=Gridcoin>
  - Statseb.fr Forum Badges:
    <https://signature.statseb.fr/index.py?action=team_badge&teamid=100454>
  - Project Whitelist and Blacklist:
    <https://gridcoin.ddns.net/pages/project-list.php>

<!-- end list -->

  - Source Code:
      - Gridcoin-Research:
        <https://github.com/gridcoin-community/Gridcoin-Research>
      - Gridcoin-Classic (**retired**):
        <https://github.com/gridcoin/Gridcoin-master>

<!-- end list -->

  - Various resources:
      - Gridcoin's GitHub community organization:
        <https://github.com/gridcoin-community>
          - Website Development:
            <https://github.com/gridcoin-community/Gridcoin-Site>
          - Gridcoin Tasks:
            <https://github.com/gridcoin-community/Gridcoin-Tasks>
          - Marketing images:
            <https://github.com/gridcoin-community/Gridcoin-Marketing>
          - Fan Site: <https://gridcoin.network>
          - Fan Site: <https://gridcoin.science>
          - Fan Site: <https://gridcoin.io>

<!-- end list -->

  - Images:
      - Launchpad: <https://launchpad.net/gridcoin>
      - AUR Qt: <https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/gridcoinresearch-qt>
      - AUR daemon:
        <https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/gridcoinresearchd/>

<!-- end list -->

  - Exchanges:
      - C-Cex: <https://c-cex.com/?p=grc-btc> (GRC/BTC and GRC/USD
        trading pairs)
      - Bittrex: <https://bittrex.com/Market/?MarketName=BTC-GRC>
      - HolyTransaction: <https://holytransaction.com/>
      - BTSABC: <https://bit.btsabc.org/#/market/OPEN.GRC_OPEN.BTC>
      - Bitshares-Light: <https://bitshares.org/>
      - RUDEX: <https://staging.rudex.org/#/market/OPEN.GRC_OPEN.BTC>
      - Flyp.me: <https://flyp.me/>
      - SouthXchange: <https://www.southxchange.com/Market/Book/GRC/BTC>

<!-- end list -->

  - Other Places To Trade:
      - MarketGrid: <https://www.reddit.com/r/MarketGrid/>
      - Gridcoin-OTC Telegram: <https://t.me/localgridcoins>
      - Gridcoin-OTC IRC:
        <https://kiwiirc.com/client/irc.snoonet.org:6697/#gridcoin-otc>

<!-- end list -->

  - 3rd-Party wallets:
      - CoinVault: <https://coinvault.io>
      - Coinomi: <https://coinomi.com/>

<!-- end list -->

  - Forums:
      - Cryptocurrencytalk:
        <https://cryptocurrencytalk.com/forum/464-gridcoin-grc/>
      - Cryptocurrencytalk macOS:
        <https://cryptocurrencytalk.com/topic/13139-os-x-builds-feedback-bug-reporting/>
      - Bitcointalk: <https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=324118.0>
      - Steemit: <https://steemit.com/created/gridcoin>
      - Reddit: <https://reddit.com/r/gridcoin>
      - Reddit (ru): <https://reddit.com/r/russiangridcoin>
      - Rocket.Chat: <https://chat.gridcoin.io/channel/general>
      - Gridcoin Telegram: <https://t.me/gridcoin>
      - Discord: <https://discord.me/page/gridcoin>
      - Slack:
        <https://join.slack.com/t/teamgridcoin/shared_invite/enQtMjk2NTI4MzAwMzg0LTUzMmY0YjdiNzYxYzQ0MDc3MGE1NjQ3Nzg2NWMzZTUzMjAwZjdhMWI1YWUzMDE4YzQyZjVjMjMzOTc1M2RmMmM/>
      - IRC: #gridcoin (must be registered with NickServ) on Freenode
          or
          <https://kiwiirc.com/client/irc.freenode.net:6697/#gridcoin-help>

<!-- end list -->

  - Social Media:
      - Twitter: <https://twitter.com/GridcoinNetwork>
      - YouTube:
        <https://www.youtube.com/c/GridcoinNetwork>
      - Tumblr: <https://gridcoin.tumblr.com/>
      - Facebook: <https://facebook.com/gridcoins>

<!-- end list -->

  - Android Apps:
      - Gridcoin Faucet:
        <https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=ml.gridcoin.faucet>
        ( can be used every 3 hours )

<!-- end list -->

  - Charts:
      - Coinmarketcap: <https://coinmarketcap.com/currencies/gridcoin/>
      - CoinGecko: <https://coingecko.com/en/coins/gridcoin-research>
      - CoinCap: <http://www.coincap.io/GRC>
      - Github contribution:
        <https://github.com/gridcoin-community/Gridcoin-Research/graphs/contributors>

## Other Wikis

  - Wikipedia: <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gridcoin>
  - Russian Wiki: <https://reddit.com/r/russiangridcoin/wiki/>
